git init - to intialize local storage to git.
git status - to show all the status of tracked and untracked files
git restore . - doing this before staging the files - clears and restores the changes in local/working directory to the ones that were available before staging it.
If we want to restore the staged file --git restore --staged <file>..." to discard changes in working directory
git add . -- to add files to staging area
git commit -m "Commit message" - To commit changes to local repository

git push origin main -- here main refers to branch name . This pushes the code changes to git repository

git diff {file name} - -git diff is a Git command used to see the differences between two versions of your code 
git checkout -b {new_banch_name} - this creates a new branch in the local directory

git switch branchname - to switch between branches
git checkout branchname - can be used to switch to another branch

git branch - lists the number of branches available in local repository

git fetch - downloads the latest changes from a remote repository, but does NOT merge them into your local branch.

git merge - pull the downloaded latest changes from local repo to working local directory ..Add everyone’s work together and leave the story as it happened.

git pull - git fetch + git merge = >it fetches code from remote to local repository and then to local repository

git rebase - Rewrite the story so it looks like you started after the latest main commit.

git branch -a lists all branches in your repository — both local and remote-tracking branches.
git branch -d branchName - to delete a branch
to force delete it --git branch -D branchName

git fetch -p - emoves any remote branches that no longer exist on the serve


### How to merge from branch to another branch(working directory)


@show branch creation fro githu UI and via cli
@git merge branch name



##
#gitignore to ignore the files that we dont want to commit.

git stash takes your current changes, saves them aside, and restores your working directory to a clean state.

git stash push -m "My message"

git stash -u - include untracking files
git stash list

git stash apply --Apply a stash (keep it in stash list)
git stash pop -- Apply and remove from stash list

git stash drop stash@{0} -Delete a stash
git stash clear --Clear all stashes


#Merge conflicts



 Branching strategy
 branching convention
 
 git log --oneline is a short, compact version of the Git commit history.


